---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: 'THESIS CONCEPT #2: What can innovation and education learn from each other?'
datePublished: '2016-04-11T10:30:49.186Z'
dateModified: '2016-04-05T15:17:14.871Z'
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-04-05-e77d6639-5aba-4145-97a9-f913140342bc.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: e77d6639-5aba-4145-97a9-f913140342bc/index.html
_type: Article

---
**THESIS CONCEPT \#2: What can innovation and education learn from each other?**

PREMISE

1\.    Technology is making knowledge workers obsolete.

2\.    Technology is making information and knowledge ubiquitous.

3\.    The creative mindset (and skill set) will increase in importance within corporations and education as technology advances.

Can advancements in educational models and corporate innovation be shared to be mutually beneficial? Can they develop common goals and methodologies to foster creativity, so the transition from education to corporate innovation is seamless?

EDUCATION AND CORPORATIONS; LEARNING FROM EACH OTHER

The need for innovation within corporations is accelerating due to the disruptive impact of evolving technology. There is an increasing need for innovation within institutions of higher education as well. As a result, greater emphasis is being placed on inquiry-based learning and the development of a creative mindset within students and employees. To meet these needs, comprehensive approaches are being developed for discovery, knowledge transfer, problem-solving and assessment within a shortened timeframe. As corporations integrate learning models into their culture, and educational institutions adjust to the economics of the industry, can they learn from each other? Can they develop a cooperative R&D approach to foster creative skill sets for future generations? And what would be the relationship?

THE LEARNING ORGANIZATION

A learning organization is the business term given to a company that facilitates the learning of its members and continuously transforms itself. The concept was coined through the work and research of Peter Senge and his colleagues. When his book, The Fifth Discipline was first published in the 1990s, the concept gained wide popularity, yet subsequently faded due to obstacles in implementation. Since then, advancements in technology, educational tools, communication, and innovation have made the learning organization more plausible and actionable. The learning organization is dependent on fostering a creative/problem-solving mindset within employees a creative/problem-solving mindset. As the computational power of computers advance into cognitive roles, the need for creativity and abstract thinking will increase. Organizations will depend on educational institutions to develop the next generation of employees with these attributes.

THE BUSINESS OF LEARNING

With the advent of the internet, knowledge has become ubiquitous and accessible to anyone with a computer and a wifi connection. This has required a re-evaluation of the role of educational organizations, both public and private. Universities and colleges are impacted by the same business dynamics found in Fortune 500 companies. There are customers, competitors, and fiscal responsibilities. And as higher education is disrupted with open educational resources and sophisticated online learning platforms, the purpose of brick and mortar institutions is being redefined. Maintaining relevance will require new pedagogical approaches centered on inquiry-based learning, adaptive curriculum, and mobile technology. There needs to be a shift to learning how to learn, how to collaborate, and how to manage ambiguity. It will be social and adaptive, adjusting to changing and unpredictable dynamics, and it will reflect the agile culture and technology used by innovative corporations and future generations.

THE CREATIVE CONNECTION

Creativity is the connective tissue between of learning and innovation. It explores the mysteries of the human experience and expresses them into tangible forms. The ability  to creatively solve problems and adapt to ambiguity will be central to  future economic growth.

The knowledge transfer between academia and industry Innovation has traditionally relied on research papers appearing in academic journals. Innovation within traditional corporations has been restricted to R&D departments. 

**_As the two worlds evolve and be-come intertwined, what methodologies, philosophies, and resources can they share?_**

**Potential implications: **

A symbiotic relationship between industry and education will ensures short-term and long-term skills are being developed for mutual interest and benefit. What would be the model for that relationship?